README.md, before:

# BDH-Official: An Open-Source Implementation of the "Dragon Hatchling" AI

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.8%2B-blue.svg)
![PyTorch](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-2.0%2B-orange.svg)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)

This repository contains an open-source project built upon the **official reference implementation** of the **"Dragon Hatchling" (BDH)** AI architecture, released by Pathway Technology, Inc. on their GitHub. This framework provides a professional environment to train, analyze, and explore the fascinating phenomenon of **emergence** in neural networks.

## Core Idea: Emergence

The project is built on the hypothesis that complex, functional structures can **emerge** from simple, local rules during a neural network's training. Instead of being explicitly programmed, intelligence and organization are learned properties.

This implementation allows researchers and enthusiasts to train a 25M parameter BDH model from scratch and provides the tools to "look inside its brain" to study its internal mechanisms.

## Features

-   **Faithful Implementation:** A clean and commented implementation of the `BDHConfig`, `Attention`, and `BDH` classes based on the official source code.
-   **Advanced Training Script:** The `train.py` script uses modern, high-performance techniques including **configurable `torch.compile`**, Automatic Mixed Precision (`bfloat16`/`float16`), and efficient data loading.
-   **Reproducibility:** The project is structured for easy and reproducible environment setup using `uv`.
-   **Open-Source:** Licensed under the MIT license, encouraging community contribution and experimentation.

## Getting Started

This project uses `uv` for fast and reliable environment management. A GPU is highly recommended.

### 1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/takzen/BDH-Official.git
cd BDH-Official
```

### 2. Install `uv` (if you don't have it)
```bash
pip install uv
```

### 3. Create environment and install dependencies
```bash
# Create the virtual environment
uv venv

# Activate the environment
# For Windows (PowerShell):
.\.venv\Scripts\activate
# For MacOS/Linux (bash/zsh):
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install all required packages
uv pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 4. Run the training
The script will download the Tiny Shakespeare dataset and start training a 25M parameter model.
```bash
python train.py
```
After training, the script will generate a sample text and save the final model to `bdh_shakespeare_final.pth`.

## Configuration

You can easily adjust the training process by modifying the configuration variables at the top of the `train.py` script.

Key options include:
-   `BATCH_SIZE`: Set to `8` to fit on an 8GB VRAM GPU. Increase if you have more memory.
-   `MAX_ITERS`: Increase for a longer, more thorough training run.
-   `USE_COMPILE`: Set to `True` (default) to enable a significant speed-up with `torch.compile`. Set to `False` to disable it for debugging purposes.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for details.

Commit message:

feat: Add text generation script and finalize documentation

README.md, after:

# BDH-Official: An Open-Source Implementation of the "Dragon Hatchling" AI

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.8%2B-blue.svg)
![PyTorch](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-2.0%2B-orange.svg)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)

This repository contains an open-source project built upon the **official reference implementation** of the **"Dragon Hatchling" (BDH)** AI architecture, released by Pathway Technology, Inc. on their GitHub. This framework provides a professional environment to train, analyze, and explore the fascinating phenomenon of **emergence** in neural networks.

## Core Idea: Emergence

The project is built on the hypothesis that complex, functional structures can **emerge** from simple, local rules during a neural network's training. Instead of being explicitly programmed, intelligence and organization are learned properties.

This implementation allows researchers and enthusiasts to train a 25M parameter BDH model from scratch and provides the tools to "look inside its brain" to study its internal mechanisms.

## Features

-   **Faithful Implementation:** A clean and commented implementation of the `BDHConfig`, `Attention`, and `BDH` classes based on the official source code.
-   **Advanced Training Script:** The `train.py` script uses modern, high-performance techniques including **configurable `torch.compile`**, Automatic Mixed Precision (`bfloat16`/`float16`), and efficient data loading.
-   **Reproducibility:** The project is structured for easy and reproducible environment setup using `uv`.
-   **Open-Source:** Licensed under the MIT license, encouraging community contribution and experimentation.

## Getting Started

This project uses `uv` for fast and reliable environment management. A GPU is highly recommended.

### 1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/takzen/BDH-Official.git
cd BDH-Official
```

### 2. Install `uv` (if you don't have it)
```bash
pip install uv
```

### 3. Create environment and install dependencies
```bash
# Create the virtual environment
uv venv

# Activate the environment
# For Windows (PowerShell):
.\.venv\Scripts\activate
# For MacOS/Linux (bash/zsh):
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install all required packages
uv pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 4. Run the training
The script will download the Tiny Shakespeare dataset and start training a 25M parameter model.
```bash
python train.py
```
After training, the script will generate a sample text and save the final model to `bdh_shakespeare_final.pth`.

### 5. Generate text
This script loads the final trained model and generates sample text. The output is printed to the console and also saved to a unique file in the `results/generated_texts/` directory.
```bash
python -m scripts.generate
```

### 6. Configuration

You can easily adjust the training process by modifying the configuration variables at the top of the `train.py` script.

Key options include:
-   `BATCH_SIZE`: Set to `8` to fit on an 8GB VRAM GPU. Increase if you have more memory.
-   `MAX_ITERS`: Increase for a longer, more thorough training run.
-   `USE_COMPILE`: Set to `True` (default) to enable a significant speed-up with `torch.compile`. Set to `False` to disable it for debugging purposes.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for details.
